android”

Quick Start Guide

English
Android 5.0, Lollipop
Copyright © 2014 Google Inc. All rights reserved.
Edition 1.5a

Google, Android, Gmail, Google Maps, Chrome, Chromecast, Android Wear,
Nexus, Google Play, YouTube, Google+, and other trademarks are property
of Google Inc. A list of Google trademarks is available at http://www.google.
com/permissions/trademark/our-trademarks.html. All other marks and
trademarks are properties of their respective owners.

This book introduces Android 5.0, Lollipop for Nexus and Google Play edi-
tion devices. Its content may differ in some details from some of the prod-
ucts described or the software that runs on them. All information provided
here is subject to change without notice.

For best results, make sure you're running the latest Android system update.
To find your device's version number or check for the latest system update,
go to a Settings > System > About phone or About tablet and look for
Android version or System updates.

If you don't have a Nexus or Google Play edition phone or tablet and are
running Android 5.0 on some other device, some details of the system as
described in this book may vary.

For comprehensive online help and support, including details about Nexus
and Google Play edition hardware running the software described in this
book and links to information about other Android devices, visit support.
google.com/android.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ii
Table of contents

1. Welcome to Android

About Android 5.0, Lollipop
Android Auto

Android TV

Android Wear

Set up your device
Make yourself at home
Send an SMS (text message) from your phone
Make a phone call
Make a video call
Send an email
Status bar
Quick Settings
Manage battery life
Get around
Nexus navigation buttons
Google Play edition navigation buttons
Menus
Organize your Home screens
Touch & type
Help & support
Android version & updates

=

Ow on NN Doo BR wD WY NY =

ny
wWwwWwnaA Oovo

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE
Essentials

Google Now
How it works
Try it
What you can ask Google to do for you
Turn “Ok Google” on or off
Display
Sound and notification

Manage accounts on your device
Add an account
Remove an account

Share your device with other users
Switch users
Remove a user
Guest user

Security
Smart Lock
Screen pinning
Protect against harmful apps

Android Device Manager
Android Beam

Tap & pay

Printing

Chromecast

File storage

Screenshots

15

15
16
7
18
18

18
19

22
22
23

24
25
25
25

26
26
27
28

28
29
30
30
31
32
33

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE
Use the keyboard
Enter & edit text
Use next-word suggestions
Gesture Typing
Keyboard dictionaries
Type by speaking

Try some apps
All Apps
Gmail
Google Play
Camera
Photos
Contacts
Messenger
Hangouts
Calendar

Settings

Accessibility

34
34
37
38
39
39

41
41
42
44
45
48
49
50
52
52

54

56

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE
1
Welcome to Android

About Android 5.0, Lollipop

Android 5.0, Lollipop is the latest version of Android, the oper-
ating system that powers not just phones and tablets, but also
wearables, TVs, and even cars.

This guide introduces the Android 5.0 software available on
Nexus and Google Play edition mobile devices. For hardware
details for these devices, such as how to insert a SIM card, specs,
and so on, visit support.google.com/android. There, you can find
comprehensive information about all types of Android phones
and tablets, including more details about Nexus and Google Play
edition devices and other versions of Android.

If you're switching to Android from iOS, see http://www.android.
com/switch for useful tips on moving your music and more onto
your new device.

Android 5.0 features a bold and bright new design, 3D graphics
support that are as good as on a desktop computer, and great
new features that make your phone work for you:

+ Add guest users and other users without providing them ac-
cess to your email, contacts, and whatever else you don’t want
to share.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE WELCOME TO ANDROID 1
* Set priorities for notifications and see them when your phone
is locked.

+ Easier ways to manage battery usage, including a battery sav-
er feature to extend battery life.

* More ways to secure your phone.

Android Auto

Android Auto will be supported by most major car manufacturers
starting with 2015 models. It allows you to plug in your phone to
display your music, contacts, and messages on the car's built-in
screen. With a simplified interface, integrated steering wheel con-
trols, and powerful new voice actions, it’s designed to minimize
distraction so you can stay focused on the road. It’s easy to get
where you're going with free voice-guided navigation via Google
Maps, live traffic information, lane guidance, and more.

For more information, visit android.com/auto.

Android TV

Nexus Player (currently available on Google Play) and other set-
top boxes and TVs coming on the market in 2015 let you watch
all your Google Play movies & TV content using Android TV. The
Android TV Remote Control app supports voice search and an
on-screen keyboard, giving you full control of your TV from your
phone or tablet. You can also browse personalized content rec-
ommendations from Google Play, YouTube, and your apps. Or use
voice search to quickly find what you want: say “Back to the Fu-
ture,” “Oscar nominated movies from 2006” or “Brad Pitt movies,”
and let Android TV do the work.

For more information, visit play.google.com/store/devices.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE WELCOME TO ANDROID 2
Android Wear

Android Wear watches from LG, Motorola, Sony, and other manu-
facturers connect your phone to your wrist. Pause, play, and skip
music tracks or quickly respond to text messages using only your
watch. Android Wear organizes your information, suggests what
you need, and shows it to you before you even ask. Get messages
from your friends, meeting notifications, and weather updates at
a glance.

For more information, visit play.google.com/store/devices.

Set up your device

When you first turn on your phone or tablet, you'll see a Welcome
screen. Choose the language you want and touch the arrow to
continue.

IMPORTANT: To complete the setup process, it’s best to
have a Wi-Fi connection.

When prompted, sign in with your Google Account or create one
at that time. Signing in lets you immediately access everything
associated with your Google Account, like Gmail. If you prefer,
you can skip this step and create an account later.

TIP: If you have another Android device, Tap & Go lets you
quickly set up a new device just by tapping it to your other
one. Any Google Accounts and apps that were already
backed up will automatically be copied over to the new
device.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE WELCOME TO ANDROID 3
An email address that you use for any of the following counts as
a Google Account:

* Gmail

* YouTube

+ Google Play
+ Google Apps
* AdWords

+ Any other Google product

Signing in with a Google Account helps you get up and running
quickly. When you sign in, you can easily get all the apps you've
purchased on Google Play onto your new device. All the email,

contacts, calendar events, and other data associated with that

account are automatically synced with your device.

For example, if you change a friend’s phone number on your
phone, that change also appears on your tablet and on any com-
puters where you're signed in to your Google Account.

If you have multiple Google Accounts, you can add others later
from %f Settings > Personal > Accounts. You can also add guest
users in % Settings > Device > Users.

Make yourself at home

After you finish setting up your device, the Home screen appears
for the first time. Here, you can add app icons and widgets (an “at-
a-glance” view of an app’s most important information) to your
Home screens to easily find them.

* To move between Home screens, swipe left or right.
* To see notifications, swipe down from the top of the screen
with one finger.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE WELCOME TO ANDROID 4
To open Quick Settings—frequently used settings—swipe
down from the top of the screen twice with one finger or once
with two fingers. See “Quick Settings” on page 7.

To open % Settings, swipe down from the top of any screen
with two fingers or swipe twice with one finger, then touch %&%
in the top right.

From the Home screen, touch Google at the top of the screen,
or say “Ok Google’ to search and start telling Google what to
do.

Send an SMS (text message) from your phone

To send an SMS from your Nexus 6 phone:

1.
2.
3.

Touch —} Messenger on your Home screen.

Touch +) to create anew message.

At the top of the screen, enter a phone number or select a con-
tact, then touch / . Type your message, then touch >.

For Nexus 4 and 5, you can get the Messenger app on Google
Play. You can also use the default SMS app that comes on the
phone—Hangouts on Nexus 5, the Messaging app on Nexus 4.

To change your default messaging app, go to ¥% Settings > Wire-
less & networks > More > Default SMS app.

Make a phone call

Using a Nexus or Google Play edition phone, you
can place calls from the Phone app, the Contacts
app, or other apps or widgets that display contact
information. Wherever you see a phone number, you
can usually touch it to dial.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE WELCOME TO ANDROID 5
To place a call to one of your contacts:

1. Touch \ Phone on aHome or oO All Apps screen.

2. To choose someone to call, scroll or search. If the keypad is in
the way, touch the Back button to lower it.

3. To place a call, touch the contact’s name.

To view recent calls, touch the Recents tab. To use the keypad,
touch the keypad.

 

TIP: On Nexus 4 and Nexus 5 only, Caller ID by Google iden-
tifiles inbound and outbound numbers, even for callers not
saved as contacts in the Contacts app.

For more details, visit Use your phone.

Make a video call

The Hangouts app lets you send and receive video
| calls. To open it, touch @ Hangouts on a Home or
@ All Apps screen.
To start a video call:

1. Touch + Add at the top of the main Hangouts screen and
start typing a name, email address, or phone number. Match-
ing names and numbers from your contacts appear as you
type.

2. Choose a name, then touch GJ Video at the top of the screen.

To adjust notification preferences and other settings, touch =
Menu > Settings.

For more details, visit Hangouts help.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE WELCOME TO ANDROID 6
Send an email

Use the Gmail app to read and write email from your
Gmail or other email addresses.

1. Touch &@ GmailonaHome or @ All Apps screen.

2. If you already signed into a Gmail account during setup, your
email will be synced to your device. Otherwise, add an email
address now.

Status bar

The status bar is at the very top of the screen. On the right, you
can see the Wi-Fi and mobile signal strength, how much battery
power is left, and the time. On the left, you can see which apps
have sent you notifications. See “Sound & notification” on page
19.

Quick Settings

Use Quick Settings to easily get to frequently used settings, like
turning on airplane mode. To open Quick Settings, swipe down
from the top of the screen with two fingers or twice with one fin-
ger. To change a setting, just touch the icon:

* Wi-Finetwork: @ Turn Wi-Fi on or off. To open Wi-Fi settings,
touch the Wi-Fi network name.

* Bluetooth settings: 4 Turn Bluetooth on or off. To open Blue-
tooth settings, touch the word “Bluetooth”.

* Cellular data: 4) See cellular usage data and turn it on or off.

* Airplane mode: 4. Turn airplane mode on or off. Airplane
mode means your phone won't connect to Wi-Fi or a cell sig-
nal, even if one is available.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE WELCOME TO ANDROID 7
* Flashlight: F Turn the flashlight on or off.

* Display brightness: a Slide to lower or increase the bright-
ness of your screen.

+ Auto-rotate: $ Lock your device's orientation in portrait or
landscape mode.

Ona Nexus 5, Quick Settings look like this:

Pe)

4

oa i!

9

 

Open the main Settings app by touching &% Settings in the top
right.

You can also turn Auto Rotate on or off from Quick Settings, to
lock or unlock automatic screen rotation.

Manage battery life

The status bar shows how much battery you have left, but you
can also see the exact percentage and approximate time of bat-
tery life remaining. Swipe down from the top of the screen, then
touch §§ Battery.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE WELCOME TO ANDROID 8
Your Android device's battery is built to get you through your day.
When you're running low, Android's battery saver conserves your
battery power so you can still make calls and send SMS (text)
messages. To turnit on, go to %% Settings > Battery > Battery
saver. For more information, visit Manage battery life.

Get around

At the bottom of every Home screen you'll find the Favorites tray:
another quick way to get to your apps.

 

To open an app, touch it. To drag an app in or out of the Favorites
tray or anywhere else on a Home screen, touch & hold it, then
move it with your finger where you want it.

Nexus navigation buttons

At the bottom of most phone or tablet screens, no matter what
you're doing, you'll always find the navigation bar with three but-
tons. On Nexus, it looks like this:

 

Back

Opens the previous screen you were working in, even
if it was ina different app. Once you back up to the
Home screen, you can’t go back any further.

 

Home

Opens the central Home screen. To open Google Now,
swipe up.

 

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE WELCOME TO ANDROID 9
 

Overview

Opens a list of thumbnail images of screens you've
worked with recently. To open one, touch it. To remove
ascreen from the list, swipe it left or right or touch

on the X.

 

Some apps hide these buttons temporarily, or fade them to small
dots in the same position. To bring them back, touch the dots,
touch the screen in the middle, or swipe up from the bottom.

Google Play edition navigation buttons

Some Google Play edition devices have two or three buttons just
below the screen. These could be physical buttons or buttons
that only appear when you touch below the screen.

* Menu: This button opens options depending on the screen
you're on.

+ Home: Opens Home. If you're viewing a left or right Home
screen, it opens the main Home screen. If you have set up
Google Now, you can also touch & hold this button to open
Google Now.

* Back: Opens the previous screen you were working in, even if it
was ina different app. Once you back up to the Home screen,
you can’t go back any further in your history.

Menus

Many screens in Apps and in Settings include a § Menu icon at
the top right of the screen. Touch it to explore additional options,
including Help and Settings.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE WELCOME TO ANDROID 10
Organize your Home screens

On Nexus 5,6, and 9:

To change your wallpaper, add a widget, adjust Search set-
tings, or change screen order, touch & hold the background of
any Home screen.

You can have any number of Home screens to the right. To add
anew screen, swipe to the rightmost screen and drag an app
or widget to the right edge.

The screen to the left of the main Home screen is reserved for
Google Now, and is available only when Google Now is turned
on.

To create a folder, slide one icon quickly on top of another.

To name or rename a folder, open it and touch its name.

To change the wallpaper:

1.
2.

Touch & hold the background, then touch {23} Wallpapers.
Swipe right to left to choose a wallpaper image. Or choose an
image from your Photos, Downloads or Drive.

To add an app icon to a Home screen:

1. Go to the Home screen where you want to place the app.

2. Touch @ All Apps.

3.

4. Touch & hold the app until the Home screen appears, slide it

Swipe from right to left, if necessary, to find the app you want.

into place, and lift your finger.

To add a widget:

1.

Touch & hold the background, then touch Widgets. On Nexus
4,7, or 10, open All Apps > Widgets.

. Swipe right to choose a widget, which provides a quick view or

way to access information on your home screen, like a larger
size clock or a view of information in your Google Play library.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE WELCOME TO ANDROID 11
To move an app or widget to another position:

. Touch & hold the icon.
. Slide your finger to the new position.

To move between Home screens, slide toward the edge of the
screen.
To bump another icon out of the way, slide slowly into it.

. Lift your finger.

Touch & type

To select or activate something, touch it.

To type something, such as a name, password, or search terms,
just touch where you want to type. A keyboard pops up that lets
you type into the field.

Other common gestures include:

Touch & hold. To select an item, touch & hold it by not lifting
your finger until something happens. This is how you access
accent and other special characters on the keyboard. Slide
your finger to the accented letter you need.

Touch, hold, & drag. Touch & hold an item for a moment and
then, without lifting your finger, move your finger on the screen
until you reach the target position. You can move apps around
on the Home screen.

Swipe or slide. Quickly move your finger across the surface of
the screen, without pausing when you first touch (so you don’t
drag something instead). Slide a Home screen left or right to
view the other Home screens.

Double-tap. Tap quickly twice on a map or image to zoom in
and out.

Scale. In some apps (such as Maps, Chrome, and Photos), you
can scale by placing two or more fingers on the screen at once

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE WELCOME TO ANDROID 12
and pinching them together (to enlarge scale) or spreading
them apart (to reduce it).

* Rotate the screen. The orientation of most screens rotates
with your device as you turn it. To keep your screen locked
in Portrait mode, swipe down with two fingers from the top
of any screen and touch S Portrait/Auto-Rotate in Quick
Settings.

Help & support

For most Google apps, you can get to help and support from the

= Menu. Other apps include a $ Menuicon that you can touch.
This book introduces just a few of the key features and apps that
come with Android 5.0. For more details about Android software
and apps, Nexus and Google Play edition devices available on
Google Play, and all forms of support, visit:

* support.google.com/nexus
* support.google.com/playedition

Google also welcomes feedback from you about your Nexus or
Google Play edition device. It’s easy to send your feedback. Just
go to %% Settings > About phone (or About tablet) > Send feed-
back about this device.

Android version & updates

To check your version number or get the latest system update

for a Nexus or Google Play edition phone, first go to 8 Settings

> System > About phone or About tablet. Then look for these

labels:

+ System updates. Touch to check whether you have any pend-
ing system updates.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE WELCOME TO ANDROID 13
+ Android version. Look partway down the list for this heading
and the number just below it.

If you don't have a Nexus or Google Play edition phone or tablet
and are running Android 5.0 on some other device, some details
of the system as described in this book may vary.

For comprehensive online help and support, including details
about Nexus and Google Play edition hardware running the soft-
ware described in this book and links to information about other
Android devices, visit support.google.com/android.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE WELCOME TO ANDROID 14
2
Essentials

Google Now

Google Now is about getting you just the right information, at just
the right time. It tells you today’s weather before you start your
day, how much traffic to expect before you leave for work, and
even your favorite team’s score while they're playing.

For example, here’s a Google Now card that appears when you're
about to start your commute:

 

© Tralfic jam on -80, Expect 4 min deley

and other disruptions farther from you

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ESSENTIALS 15
After you start using Google Now, you don’t need to do anything
else. If you like, you can fine-tune some settings, but Google Now
doesn't need any elaborate setup.

How it works

To know when to show information you'll find useful, Google Now
uses contextual data from your device and from other Google
products, plus data from third-party products that you allow
Google Now to access. For example, if you have an appointment
in Google Calendar that includes an address, Google Now can
check traffic and suggest when to leave.

When you decide to use Google Now, you're also turning on Loca-
tion Reporting and Location History:

+ Location Reporting allows Google to periodically store and
use your device's most recent location data in connection
with your Google Account. Location Reporting is a per-device
setting.

* Location History allows Google to store a history of your
location data from all devices where you're logged into your
Google Account and have turned on Location Reporting.

You can control how Google Now uses your current location. To
view the relevant settings, go to &% Settings > Personal > Loca-
tion. When location services are turned on for your account ona
given device, certain apps can use them to give you more relevant
information, such as nearby restaurants or commute traffic.

To learn more about how Google Now uses your location and
other information, visit About Google Now.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ESSENTIALS 16
Try it

You have a chance to turn on Google Now when you first set up
your device. You can also turn it on or off at any time:

1. Touch & hold any empty space on your Home screen.
2. Goto %% Settings > Google Now.

To open Google Now on Nexus 5, 6, and 9, swipe up from the

Home button. Updates appear in the form of Google Now cards.
When you don’t need a card anymore, swipe it from left to right.
Swiping from right to left returns you to the main Home screen.

When you want to see more cards, touch More at the bottom of
the screen.

To adjust the way certain cards get updated:

* Manage reminders: Fromthe = Menu at the top left of the
screen, touch 3 Reminders.

+ Request updates for your sports teams, stocks, and more:
From the = Menu, touch Y: Customize.

* Customize other updates: At the top right of each card, touch
the ee three dots.

For more details, visit About Google Now. For a complete list of
cards available, visit google.com/now.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ESSENTIALS 17
What you can ask Google to do for you

When you use Google Now, you can speak to your device to
search, get directions, and create reminders. For example, say
“Ok Google, do | need an umbrella tomorrow?’ to see if there’s
rain in the weather forecast.

To see other examples of what you can say, visit “Ok Google” and
voice search. You can say most of these examples in English,
French, German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Russian, Spanish, and
Brazilian Portuguese, but some examples aren't available in every
language.

If you want to say “Ok Google’ in languages other than English,
you also need to change the main language on your device. Visit
Change your language on Google.

Turn “Ok Google” on or off

You can start a search or task by saying “Ok Google.” To turn it
off or on, open Google Now or the Google app and touch Menu >
Settings > Voice > OK Google detection.

Display

Change the display settings on your device by following these
steps:

1. Goto %% Settings > Device > Display.

2. Choose from the following settings. Some of these settings
may vary by your device and version of Android. All can affect
battery life. See “Manage battery life” on page 8 for more
information.

+ Brightness level: Move the o@ slider to set the brightness
level on your device.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ESSENTIALS 18
+ Adaptive brightness: Turn on adaptive brightness to au-
tomatically optimize the brightness level on your device
based on the available light around you. Adaptive bright-
ness is on by default. You can still adjust your brightness
when needed.

* Sleep: Change how long it takes for your device’s screen to
go black when you're not using it. Learn more about Sleep
Settings.

+ Daydream: Set up screensavers that display photos, color-
ful backgrounds, and more when your device is charging or
docked. Learn more about using Daydream.

+ Ambient display (Nexus 6 only): Turn on ambient display
if you want your phone to wake up when you pick it up or
when a notification arrives.

Sound & notification

You can change the sound and notification settings on your de-
vice by going to %% Settings > Device > @ Sound & notification.

Notifications alert you to the arrival of new messages, calen-
dar events, and alarms, as well as ongoing events, such as
downloads:

+ Interruptions. Prioritize sound notifications so they don't inter-
rupt you. Touch the settings to turn phone call and message
interruptions on or off. If you turn Messages notifications on,
touch Calls/messages from to specify from whom you accept
notifications (Anyone, Starred contacts or Contacts Only). In
Downtime, select which days and times you allow for sound
notifications.

+ When device is locked. Manage whether notifications can be
seen when your phone is locked, and whether sensitive con-
tent ina notification can be seen. Sensitive content includes

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ESSENTIALS 19
things like the title of a song you downloaded, who sent you an
email, or the details of a calendar event. For more information,
visit the Help Center.

* App Notifications. Modify the notification settings individu-
ally for apps such as Gmail. The setting under When device
is locked will always take precedence over the setting for an
individual app.

* Notification access. See which apps can access your
notifications.

When a notification arrives, its icon appears at the top of the
screen. Icons for pending notifications appear on the left, and
system icons showing things like the Wi-Fi signal, mobile carrier
signal, or battery strength are on the right:

Notifications Wi-Fi signal Battery

Google
Google

8
Mobile signal Y
strength

 

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ESSENTIALS 20
TIP: Wi-Fi and mobile signal strength are indicated at the
top of the screen by white bars. To see whether the select-
ed Wi-Fi network has a full Internet connection, open Quick
Settings by swiping down with two fingers from the top of
the screen.

In Quick Settings only, white bars in the Wi-Fi or mobile
signal indicators indicate the signal strength of a normal
Internet connection.

Certain notifications can be expanded to show more information,
such as email previews or calendar events. The one at the top is
always expanded when possible. To expand a notification, posi-
tion one finger inside it and swipe down slowly.

To open the related app, touch the notification icon on the left.
Some notifications also allow you to take specific actions by
touching icons within the notification. For example, Calendar
notifications allow you to Snooze (remind you later) or send email
to other guests.

When you're finished with a notification, swipe it away. To dismiss
all notifications, touch = Dismiss at the very bottom of the noti-
fications list.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ESSENTIALS 21
 

Dentist appointment
9:30 ~ 10:30 AM

1325 Vine Street

Berkeley, CA 94605
United Stat

Q mr
57 new messages 344 PM
katiaray24@gmail.com 256

@ System update downloaded

 
  

 

 

 

 

Manage accounts on your device

You can add accounts so that information associated with that
account automatically syncs with your device. You'll need to set
up an account on your device if you want to get email or get apps
on Google Play.

You can also add multiple users for your device, like if several
people share a tablet. Adding users is different from adding
accounts. Each user has separate settings and can’t access the
accounts of other users, whereas a single user can have multiple
accounts and switch between them anytime they're signed in.
Make sure you're signed in as the correct user before adding or
removing any account information.

Add an account

1. Goto ¥% Settings > Personal > Accounts. Touch “Add
account.”

2. Touch the type of account you want to add. You may be able
to choose from choices like “Google,” “Personal (IMAP),” or
“Personal (POP3).” If you're not sure whether to choose IMAP.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ESSENTIALS 22
or POP3, try IMAP first. Many email services use IMAP. Learn

more about the differences between IMAP and POP3.

i. Choose “Google” if you want to add your Google Account.
When you sign in with a Google Account, all the email, con-
tacts, calendar events, and other data associated with that
account are automatically synced with your device.

ii. Follow the on-screen instructions to add the account.

To change the settings of any of the accounts you added, follow
these steps:

1. Goto %% Settings > Personal > Accounts.
2. Select your account. If you're using a Google Account, touch
Google and then your account.

Remove an account

When you remove an account that you've added to your device,
everything associated with that account, including email, con-
tacts, and settings is also deleted. You can’t remove the account
you used to initially set up your device.

To remove an account from your device, follow these steps:

1. Check to see if the account you want to remove is the account
you used to set up your device.

+ If it’s not, goto step 2 and follow the instructions.

+ Ifitis, reset your device to its factory settings instead of
following the steps below. This erases all of the data from
your device and you'll need a Google Account to set up your
device again. Learn how to do a factory data reset on your
Nexus device or Google Play edition device.

2. Openthe %&% Settings menu on your device.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ESSENTIALS 23
3. Under “Accounts,” touch the name of the account you want to
remove. If you're using a Google Account, touch Google and
then the account.

+ When you sign out of your Google Account, all the email,
contacts, Calendar events, and other data associated with
that account will no longer automatically syne with your
device.

4. Touch $ Menuin the top right corner of the screen.

5. Touch Remove account.

Share your device with other users

You can easily share your device with family and friends by creat-
ing a separate user for each person. Each person has their own
space on the device for custom Home screens, accounts, apps,
settings, and more. You must be the device owner to add users.

To add a new user, follow these steps:

1. Goto %% Settings > Device > Users.

2. Touch Add user, then touch OK.

i. If you're with the new user: Touch “Set up now” and you'll
be taken to the lock screen. Select the new user, unlock the
screen, and allow them to set up their Google Account and
other details.

. If the new user isn’t around: Touch “Not now.” A “New user”
will appear in the list. The next time you're with the user, go
back to the user list and select “New user” or click the user
image on the lock screen.

After a user is set up, when you go to the lock screen, you'll see a
second user profile picture or avatar in the status bar. To choose
a user, touch the picture and unlock the screen. Each user can set
their own screen lock.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ESSENTIALS 24
Switch users

To switch users, swipe down from the top of any screen twice to
open Quick Settings. Touch the image of the current user in the
top right corner of the screen, then touch another user's image.

Remove a user
The device's owner can delete any user that they added:

1. Goto %% Settings > Device > Users.
2. Touch & Settings next to the user's name, then touch Re-
move user.

Other users can only delete their own space.

1. Goto % Settings > Device > Users.
2. Touch $ Menu > Delete username from this device.

Guest user

If someone wants to temporarily use your device, but they don’t
need to be set up as a regular user, they can use it as a guest.
Guest users don't have access to your mail, your apps, or any
content on your device that’s tied to your account, like photos or
downloaded files. You must be the device's owner to add a guest.

1. Goto % Settings > Device > Users.
2. Touch Guest.

When your guest is finished using your device, you can switch
back to another user.

To switch to another user: Swipe down from the top of any
screen, and then touch the bar at the top to open Quick Settings.
To choose another user, touch the image in the top right corner of
the screen, then touch another user's image.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ESSENTIALS 25
Security

If a lock is set for your screen, the screen goes dark and locks
when the display goes to sleep or if you press the Power button.

You can set locks of different strengths using Screen Lock
settings:

1. Goto Settings > Personal > Security > Screen
lock.
2. Touch the type of lock you'd like to use.

Even when your screen is locked, you can perform certain
activities.

* Quick Settings: Slide down from the top of the screen to open
Quick Settings without entering your password.

* Camera: Slide from right to left to open the Camera.

* Access Dialer: Slide from left to right to make a phone call.
(First you have to enter your password.)

+ Emergency Calls: Slide from left to right to make an emergen-
cy phone call without having to enter your password.

If you have a device that’s set up for more than one user, you may
need to touch your image at the bottom of the screen to see your
own locked screen.

For more information, visit Customize the screen lock.

Smart Lock

You can turn on Smart Lock to keep your device unlocked when
it’s clear that you have it with you—for example, when it’s con-
nected to your Bluetooth watch or when it recognizes your face.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ESSENTIALS 26
Trusted devices and face matching

You can set your device to stay unlocked while connected to a
Bluetooth device—like a watch, fitness tracker, headset, or car
speaker system. You can also set your device to unlock when it
touches an NFC tag.

You can also have your device unlock when it recognizes your
face. After setting a trusted face, every time you turn on your
device, it will search for your face and unlock if it recognizes you.
Keep in mind that someone who looks similar to you could unlock
your phone.

Note: Face matching doesn’t store any photos of you. Data used to
recognize your face is only stored on your device and is not acces-
sible by apps or backed up on Google servers.

For more information on how to use these features, see Trusted
devices and face matching.

Screen pinning

You can enable your device to only show a certain app’s screen
using screen pinning. Screen pinning can be handy if you want to
play a game without accidentally minimizing the app if you touch
the Home button. Some apps may ask you if you want to use
screen pinning.

When a screen is unpinned, you can choose to return to the
screen where you enter your password or PIN.

To pina screen:

1. Goto %% Settings > Security > Screen pinning and turn screen
pinning on.
2. Open an app.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ESSENTIALS 27
3. Touch Overview on your device. Swipe up the first screen
on the bottom to bring it into view.

4. Touch & the pin. Here, you can select an option to return to
the lock screen after a screen is unpinned.

5. To exit from the pinned screen, touch and hold and at
the same time.

Protect against harmful apps

Apps from Google Play are always verified by Google to protect
you and your device from harm. By default, your device doesn't al-
low the installation of apps from sources other than Google Play.

If you choose to allow the installation of apps from unknown
sources and install apps from sources other than Google Play, it’s
more likely that apps will be installed that could harm you or your
device.

If you allow the installation of apps from unknown sources, the
Verify Apps feature protects you when installing apps outside
of Google Play by continually checking your device to make sure
that all apps installed are behaving in a safe manner, even after
installation.

For more information or to change the default behavior, visit Pro-
tect against harmful apps.

Android Device Manager

If you lose your phone or tablet, the Android Device Manager can
help you find its approximate location, make it ring, lock it, or
erase its data.

These options are turned on by default. To view or change them,
open the ee Google Settings app (found in @ All Apps) and
touch Android Device Manager.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ESSENTIALS 28
If you lose your device, go to Android Device Manager and follow
the instructions.

Android Beam

You can instantly send, or beam, a web page, a video, or other
content from your screen to another device by bringing the devic-
es together (typically back to back). In some apps, you can also
start a beam from the Share menu.

Before you begin: Make sure both devices are unlocked, support
Near Field Communication (NFC), and have both NFC and Android
Beam turned on. To check, go to % Settings > Wireless & net-
works > More. Also, make sure you know where the NFC area is
on the back of both devices.

1. Opena screen that contains something you'd like to share,
such as a webpage, YouTube video, or place page in Maps.

2. Move the back of your device toward the back of the other
device. When the devices connect, you hear a sound, the im-
age on your screen reduces in size, and you see the message
Touch to beam.

3. Touch your screen anywhere. The other device displays the
transferred content. Or, if the necessary app isn't installed,
Google Play opens to a screen where your friend can down-
load the app.

To turn on NFC, go to Settings > Wireless & net-
works > More > NFC.

To turn on Android Beam, go to Settings > Wireless
& networks > More > Android Beam

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ESSENTIALS 29
Tap & pay

When NEC is turned on, you can use the Tap & pay feature to pay
for items just by touching your phone to a reader at a register. To
manage your Tap & pay apps:

1. Goto %% Settings > Device > Tap & pay.
2. Touch an app to make it your default payment app.

If your device doesn’t have a payment app, such as Google Wallet,
search Google Play for “payment apps.”

For more information, visit Tap & pay with your device.

Printing

With Android 5.0, you can preview and print the content of certain
screens (such as web pages displayed in Chrome) to a printer on
the same Wi-Fi network as your Android device.

Before you can print, you need a printing service installed on your
device. To check what services are currently available, go to %&%
Settings > System > Printing.

From here, you can open each available service to turn it on or off,
check which printers it makes available, add new printers, and
adjust the service's settings.

To print a document, such as a webpage in Chrome:

1. Touch 3 Menu > Print.

2. Inthe dialog that appears, adjust settings such as printer, cop-
ies, orientation, and so on.

3. Touch Print.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ESSENTIALS 30
Chromecast

Chromecast is a small device that plugs into the back of your TV.
It allows you to send videos and music straight from your phone
or tablet to your TV. You can use Chromecast with apps like:

* YouTube

* Netflix

+ Google Play Movies & TV
+ Google Play Music

* Hulu Plus

To see more apps, visit chromecast.com/apps.

When using Chromecast, make sure your phone or tablet is using
the same Wi-Fi network as your Chromecast, and that Chrome-
cast is selected as your TV's source input.

To display content from your phone or tablet on your TV:

1. Open the video or music in one of the apps listed above.
2. Touch §,] Cast.
3. Play the content as usual to stream it to your TV.

For more information, see Cast from apps to your TV.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ESSENTIALS 31
File storage

Android 5.0 makes it easy to store and browse through pictures,
videos, and other files on your device and attach them to an
email, Hangout message, and so on. You can also use stored
images as your Home screen wallpaper.

For example, to attach an image to an email you're composing,
touch the © Paper Clipin the top right and choose to either
Attach file or Insert from Drive to select stored images in your
Drive folder.

From here, you can view any of these sources:

+ Recent shows you the photos or videos you've taken or
opened most recently.

* Drive lets you attach any files stored in Google Drive.

+ Images displays any photos, videos, or other images on your
device.

* Downloads includes most files (excluding Play content) you've
downloaded from emails or the Web

* Photos lets you browse all the images and videos that are on
your device or have been uploaded to your Google account.

Use the Downloads app to view, reopen, or delete
files you download from Gmail or other sources
(excluding Google Play books, videos, magazines,
and other media.)

In the Downloads app:

* Touch an item to open it.

+ Inyour list of downloads, touch & hold an item to select it.
Touch «@ Share and choose a sharing method from the list.
Touch jj to delete.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ESSENTIALS 32
Google Play streams purchases and rentals via the Internet. So
the purchases and rentals don't always occupy storage space
when you play them. Although you can download content in
Google Play apps to access offline, Google Play content never
appears in Downloads.

Screenshots
To take a screenshot from Nexus or Google Play edition devices:

1. Make sure the image you want to capture is displayed on the
screen.
2. Press the Power and Volume down buttons simultaneously.

The screenshot is automatically saved in your Photos.

TIP: To easily share your screenshot via Gmail, Google+,
and more, select your screenshot in Photos and touch <
Share at the bottom. Touch g* Edit to modify. Touch §j to
delete. For Google Play edition devices, touch <2 Share.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ESSENTIALS 33
Use the keyboard

TIP: To select a keyboard language other than English, go

to %& Settings, Personal > Language & input. For more
details, visit the

Enter & edit text

Use the onscreen keyboard to enter text. Here’s what it looks like
ona Nexus phone:

Q Ww ie R- ia y U | 8 Oo p
Rete eater mrt
ZX CVBNM &

HEEL) OCS:

Vv O en)

34
Keyboards on tablets work ina similar way. To make the keyboard
go away, touch the Back button below it.

Some apps open the keyboard automatically. In others, you first
need to touch where you want to type.

 

 

 

 

 

Basic editing

Change Touch the cursor, then touch and drag the

where you tab that appears below it to the new position.

want to type

Select text Touch and hold or double-tap within the text.
The nearest word highlights, with a tab at
each end of the selection. Drag the tabs to
change the selection.

Delete text Touch the €@ Delete key to delete the char-
acters before the cursor or selected text.

Type capital To switch to capital letters for one letter,

letters touch the a Shift key once.
You can also touch and hold the Shift key
while you type or you can touch the Shift
key and slide to another key.
When you release the key, the lowercase
letters reappear.

Turn caps Double-tap or touch and hold the a Shift

lock on

key so that it changes to. Touch the a Shift
key again to return to lowercase.

 

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE USE THE KEYBOARD 35
 

Change word
capitalization

If you want to quickly change the capitaliza-
tion of a word you've already typed, you can
select it and touch the a Shift key.

You'll have the option to select the capital-
ized word or the word in all capital letters.

 

Typea
symbol or
character

To switch to symbol keys for one word, touch
the symbol key BJ once.

You can also touch and hold the symbol key
while you type or you can touch thesym-
bol key and slide to another key. When

you release the key, the letter keys reappear.

 

View more
symbols and
characters

Touch and hold symbols or characters to get
accented characters or additional symbols.

 

Cut, copy,
paste

Select the text you want to cut or copy. Then
touch the Cut button $¢ or Copy button ID.
To paste, touch the space where you want
to paste your text and then touch Paste. If
you want to replace other text with the text
you copied, highlight the text, then touch the
Paste button [*].

 

Emoji

Use Google Keyboard to choose from a variety of small, colorful
images used to express emotion (known as emoji) to add some

fun to your messages.

Depending on your device, you may need to touch and hold the
Return key and then slide your finger to the happy face to display
emoji. On a tablet, just touch the emoji symbol at the lower right.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE USE THE KEYBOARD 36
You'll see a panel like this. To move between categories, swipe
left or right or touch the symbols in the top row. To type an emoji,
touch it:

wy
oo Sm 4
Se SsBSeaARS

vy !

t
I
\
¢
4“
Bt

Use next-word suggestions

1. Touch the location where you want to input text.

2. Start typing out a word. When the word you want is displayed
in alist above the keyboard, touch it.

3. Continue to touch words unless the one you want doesn't
appear. If so, type it.

Android continues to suggest words as you type.

To change your keyboard and input methods, go to
Settings > Personal > Language & input.

To turn next-word suggestions on or off, go to Set-
tings > Personal > Language & input > Keyboard &
input methods > Google Keyboard > Text correction
> Next-word suggestions.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE USE THE KEYBOARD 37
Gesture Typing

Gesture Typing works best for English. Quality varies for other fan-
guages, and some don't support it yet.

To input a word using Gesture Typing:

1. Touch the location where you want to type to open the
keyboard.

2. Slide your finger slowly across the letters of the word you want
to input.

3. Release your finger when the word you want is displayed in
the floating preview or the middle of the suggestion strip. To
select one of the other words in the suggestion strip, touch it.

If the word you want isn’t shown while using Gesture Typing,
you can type it out manually. If you gesture a word and want to
change it, touch the word to see other choices in the suggestion
strip.

TIP: If there are letters you want to emphasize, like repeat-

ed letters, such as the “e” in sleep, pause over the “e” slight-
ly longer before moving on to the next letter.

Use Gesture Typing without the space bar

When you use Gesture Typing, there’s no need to use the space
bar — just continue to slide your finger across the letters you want
to input, then lift your finger to start the next word.

To change Gesture Typing settings, go to @% Set-
tings > Language & input > Keyboard & input meth-
ods > Google Keyboard> Gesture Typing.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE USE THE KEYBOARD 38
Keyboard dictionaries

To manage keyboard dictionaries, goto @% Settings > Personal >
Language & input.

Personal dictionary

You can add your own words to your personal dictionary so that
your device remembers them. To add a word or phrase, including
an optional shortcut, go to %% Settings > Personal > Language &
input > Google Keyboard > Text Correction > Personal dictio-
nary and the language of the dictionary you want to modify, then
choose Add and type in the word. When you use the optional
shortcut when typing, your word or phrase appears as an option
in the suggested words above the keyboard.

Add-on dictionaries

1. Goto %% Settings > Personal > Language & input > Google
Keyboard > Text Correction > Add-on dictionaries.

2. You'll see dictionaries for other languages that you can down-
load to your device.

3. Touch the dictionary you want, then Install.

Type by speaking

You can speak to enter text in most places where you can enter
text with the onscreen keyboard.

1. Touch a text field, or a location in the text you've already en-
tered ina text field.

2. Touchthe ®& Microphone key on the onscreen keyboard.

3. When you see the microphone image, speak what you want to

type.

In some languages, you can also enter punctuation by speaking

it, like “comma,” “period,” “question mark,’ “exclamation mark,”

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE USE THE KEYBOARD 39
or “exclamation point.” Supported languages include English,
French, Italian, German, Spanish, and Russian.

To improve processing of your voice input, Google may record a
few seconds of background noise in temporary memory at any
time. This recording remains on the device only temporarily and
is not sent to Google.

To change your speech settings, go to Settings >
Personal > Language & input.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE USE THE KEYBOARD 40
4
Try some apps

All Apps

To see all your apps, touch oO All Apps in the Favor-
ites tray on any Home screen.

This is where you can see all your apps, including
those that come with your phone and those you
downloaded on Google Play. You can move app
icons to any of your Home screens.

From All Apps, you can:

+ Move between screens. Swipe left or right.

+ Open an app. Touch its icon.

+ Place an app icon on a Home screen. Touch & hold the app
icon, slide your finger, and lift your finger to drop the icon into
your desired Home screen.

* Browse widgets. Touch the Widgets tab at the top of any All
Apps screen.

* Getmore apps. Touch » Google Play inthe list of app icons.

To remove an app icon from the Home screen without removing
it permanently from your device, touch & hold it, slide your finger
toward the top of the screen, and drop the app over & Remove.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE TRY SOME APPS 41
To view info about an app from an All Apps screen, touch & hold
it, slide your finger toward the top of the screen, and drop the app
over @ App Info.

TIP: Some apps can harm you or your device. However, you
don’t need to purchase anti-virus software for Nexus or
Google Play edition devices. Google can verify apps to help
prevent harmful software from being installed.

For more details, visit Protect against harmful apps.

Gmail

Use the Gmail app to read and write email from
any mobile device. To openit, touch § Gmail ona

Home or @ All Apps screen.

Gmail isn’t just about email. You can use your Gmail account to
sign in to all Google apps and services, including these and many
more:

* Google Now, for getting the information you need at just the
right time

* Calendar

+ People, for keeping track of your contacts

* Google Drive, for working with documents

While you're reading a message:

* Touch the icons along the top of the screen to archive, throw
away, and mark as read. Touch §§ to mark a message as

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE TRY SOME APPS 42
unread. Look under the $ Menu to move, change labels,
mute, print and do other actions to the email.
+ Swipe left or right to read the previous or next conversation.

Organize your conversations: From the Inbox, touch & hold a con-
versation to select it. Then use the icons and menu along the top
of the screen to manage the selected messages.

To change your settings, add an account, or get help, touch the
menu icon or button.

No matter where you are in Gmail, you can always get back to the
Inbox by touching the Back button at the top of the screen.

From the Inbox, touch Menu to open the drawer that reveals avail-
able accounts, labels, and so on.

For more information, visit Gmail help.

TIP: You can access your email from other accounts, like
Microsoft Exchange, in Gmail by adding the account in
Gmail Settings.

To add a non-Gmail email account to Gmail:

1. Goto Settings > Personal > Accounts > Add account.

2. Touch the type of account you want to add. You may be able to
choose from choices like “Google,” “Personal,” or “Work.”

3. Choose “Google” if you want to add your Google Account.
When you sign in with a Google Account, all the email, con-
tacts, Calendar events, and other data associated with that
account are automatically synced with your device.

4. Follow the on-screen instructions to add the account.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE TRY SOME APPS 43
To change the settings of any of the accounts you added, follow
these steps:

1. Openthe ¥¥ Settings menu on your device.

2. Under “Personal,” touch “Accounts” and select your account.
If you're using a Google account, touch Google and then your
account.

Google Play

Google Play brings together all your favorite apps
A & games, movies & TV shows, books, music, and
|? news & magazines in one place, so you can reach it
from any of your devices.

To open the Google Play app, touch » Google Play.

If you purchased content on Google Play in the past, you'll auto-
matically have access to this content on any Android device —
just make sure you're signed in using the same account that you
used to purchase it. To check:

1. Openthe » Google Play app.
2. Touch = Menuat the top left.

From here, you can view the current account or switch to another,
view your purchased apps, check your wish list, and so on.

To set preferences, clear your search history, and turn on user
controls, go to = Menu > Settings. For example, to filter apps
based on maturity level or require a PIN for purchases, touch
Content filtering or Require authentication for purchases.

To find your content, open any of the Google Play apps from the
@ All Apps screen and touch = Menu.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE TRY SOME APPS 44
tan 3k wi a 220
= = MyLibrary

Mo cM es

 

The Three ‘Alice's Adventures
Musketeers. in Wonderland
Alexendie Dumas Lewis Cero

 

Google Play support

For more details about Google Play, including phone and email
support options, visit support.google.com/googleplay.

Camera

= . The Camera app lets you take photos, panoramic
9 photos, videos, and immersive 360-degree photo
sphere shots, including what's above and below
you.

To open Camera:

+ From the the lock screen, swipe from right to left.
+ From the Home screen, touch 9) Camera.

The first time you open Camera, you may be asked if you want
it to remember photo locations. This allows you, for example, to
Pinpoint the location of a particular photo with Google Maps.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE TRY SOME APPS 45
When you open Camera, you can choose from five different cam-
era modes. To see the modes, swipe left to right.

The (J Camera icon indicates Camera mode. To take a picture:

1. Frame your subject and watch for the focus ring.

To focus on a different part of the image, touch it. To zoom in,
pinch two fingers outwards. To zoom out, pinch two fingers
inwards.

2. When the focus ring brackets disappear, touch the shutter
button, which is the camera button.

3. To see the image you just took, swipe from right to left. To see
stored photos, touch w Photos in the top right. When viewing
stored photos, touch <¢ to share, g° Edit to modify photos
and §J to delete.

Keep swiping to see other images in Photos.

To change to a different mode, swipe left to right to show the list
of camera modes:

Photo Sphere

Bute cle)

Lens Blur

Tr)

 

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE TRY SOME APPS 46
 

Photo
Sphere

To capture a 360-degree or wide angle shot,
pan or tilt until the circle in the center of the
screen moves over a blue dot and records that
portion of the image. Keep moving over the
dots until you're finished, then touch the check
mark at the bottom of the screen.

 

Panorama

Touch Panorama to begin taking a panoramic
photo.

Find your starting point, and touch the shutter
to take the first picture in the panorama.

To take the subsequent pictures, slowly swivel
the phone in place to move the target icon over
each gray dot until the dot turns blue.

Keep hovering over the dots until all of them are
blue and your image is complete. Then touch
the check mark at the bottom of the screen.

 

Lens Blur

Touch Lens Blur, then slowly raise the device
following the arrow.

 

Camera

Touch Camera to take regular pictures.

 

Video

To start recording a video, touch the video but-
ton. Touch it again to stop.

 

To change settings for each mode such as flash, exposure, and
so on, touch the circle with the three dots at the bottom right of
the framed image.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE TRY SOME APPS 47
TIP: HDR+ on Nexus 5 and 6 automatically snaps a rapid
burst of photos and combines them to give you the best
possible single shot. To turn on HDRt+, touch the ... at the
lower right of the shutter and select HDR+.

For more details, visit Camera help.

Photos

The Photos app gives you instant access to all your
photos and videos associated with any Google

4 Account set up on your phone or tablet. To open it,
touch @% Photos.

To open Photos from the:

+ Camera app. Swipe from right to left.
* All Apps screen. Touch @& Photos.

When you're signed into your device with your Google Account,
the Photos app makes it easy to auto-backup all the photos and
videos you take, organize them, and share with friends.

You can also browse, search, crop, edit, and tag photos, and cre-
ate albums and movies.

Touch = Menu to:

* Switch to or from Google+.

* Organize and edit your photos and videos.

* Create and browse albums.

+ Explore Auto Awesome animations, panoramas, or merged
group shots created for you automatically.

+ Browse photos of yourself.

For more details, visit Photos help.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE TRY SOME APPS 48
Contacts

The Contacts app gives you quick access to every-
one you want to reach. To open it, touch the Con-
tacts icon ona Home or All Apps screen.

When you first turn on your device and sign into a Google Ac-
count, existing contacts from that account are synced with your
Contacts app. After that, your contacts stay in sync automatically
on your different devices or a Web browser.

If you use Exchange, you can also sync that contact information
with Contacts.

All your Contacts information is available from Gmail, Google
Talk, and other apps. As you add contacts from different sources,
they're synced automatically across all the places you need them.

When you open the Contacts app, you can:

* View all contacts or favorites. Choose from the top of the
screen.

* Add acontact. Touch @ Add Contact.

* Read details. Touch a name to see details for a contact or
group.

+ Share the contact or place a frequently used contact on the

Home screen. Touch : Menu.

* Edit details. While viewing a contact, touch g Edit at the top
of the screen to edit the contacts information.

+ Change your settings. While viewing the main list screen,
touch = Menu to import or export contacts, choose display

options and add or edit accounts.

For more information, visit Contacts help.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE TRY SOME APPS 49
Messenger

The Messenger app for sending SMS/text messag-

es is available for devices running Android Lollipop,
5.0 or higher.

To read and respond to messages, follow these steps:

1. When you receive a new message, you'll get a notification on
your device and a new message icon [J will appear in your
notification panel.

2. To open and read the message, touch the new message notifi-
cation in the notifications panel.

3. To respond to a message, touch the Send message box and
type your message.

4. To send, touch BS» Send.

To create and send a text message, follow these steps:

1. Goto e@ All Apps and touch —} Messenger.

2. Inthe main Messenger screen, touch +).

3. Enter a name from your contacts or a mobile phone number
in the To field. To send a group text message, touch the +2
group icon in the To field and touch additional contacts or
enter additional mobile phone numbers. .

+ Below the To field, you can choose from your frequent
contacts by touching Frequents or your list of contacts by
touching All contacts.

* If you're sending a group message, make sure you turn on
group messaging in Messenger setting.

+ If you choose to enter a name or mobile number in the To
field, matching contacts appear as you type, if any exist
among your contacts. You can touch a suggested recipient
or continue entering the phone number.

4. To write your message, touch the Send message box and type

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE TRY SOME APPS 50
your message. Learn more about using Google Keyboard and
emoji. See “Use the keyboard” on page 34.

5. If you touch the Back button while composing a message,
it’s saved as a draft in Messenger. Touch the conversation to
resume composing it.

6. To send, touch > Send.

You can manage your messages, conversations, notifications,
and contacts right from Messenger home screen. You can also
change your sound, notification, and other settings.

Delete messages

1. Opena conversation in Messenger.
2. Touch and hold the message you wish to delete.
3. When the “Message options” box appears, touch Delete.

Delete conversations

1. While viewing your list of conversations in Messenger, touch
and hold a conversation to select it.

2. To delete the conversation, touch [J Trash in the top right
corner of the screen.

Manage conversations
From the Messenger home screen, touch and hold a conversation
ora selection of conversations to take any of these actions:

* Archive. Touch §@ Archive to store the conversation.

* Delete. Touch jf to delete the conversation from the Messen-
ger app.

* Turn notifications on or off. Touch 3 Notification to turn noti-
fications on or off for the conversation.

* Add contact. Touch + Add contact to add the conversation’s
contact to your list of contacts.

For more information, visit Messenger help.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE TRY SOME APPS 51
Hangouts

With Hangouts, you can make video calls to anyone
| with a Google Account. You can share photos and
“ey your location with others. On some Nexus devices,
Hangouts is also your default messaging app.

For more information about using Hangouts, visit Hangouts help.

Calendar

Use the Calendar app to view and edit your sched-
31 ule. To openit, touch Calendar on a Home or All
Apps screen.

When you first set up your Android device, you have a chance

to configure it to use a Google Account (such as Gmail). The
first time you open the Calendar app on your phone or tablet, it
displays any existing calendar events from that Google Account
onthe web.

As you edit events, they're synced automatically across all the
places you need them.

To change the Calendar view, touchthe $ Menu and choose
Schedule, Day, or Week from the top of the screen.

From any of these views, you can:

* Read or edit event details. Touch an event to view its details.
+ Manage events and calendars. Touch icons across the top of
the screen or the menu to search or create events, return to

today, or adjust settings.

To email everyone who is invited to an event, you have two
options:

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE TRY SOME APPS 52
* Open the event from the Calendar app at any time and touch
Email guests. You have a list of quick responses or you can
write your own.

+ When a notification of the event arrives just before the meet-
ing starts, swipe down the notification shade. Then swipe
using one finger to expand the notification if necessary, and
touch Email guests.

For more information, visit Calendar help.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE TRY SOME APPS 53
5
settings

Settings controls the core Android settings for
networks, hardware, location, security, language,
accounts, etc.

The fastest way to adjust system settings that you access fre-
quently, such as Wi-Fi or brightness, is through Quick Settings.
See “Quick Settings” on page 7.

You can control many other settings for your device and account
by swiping down from the top of the screen twice and touching
%. These are the main types of device or account settings avail-
able. Click the links to see related help articles.

+ Wireless & networks, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, data usage, Android
Beam, and related settings.

+ Device. Sound, battery, sleep, and other display settings.

* Location.

+ Language.

+ Syne.
* Backup/reset options.
* Accounts.

* Security. Passwords and certificates, screen lock, encryption,
and app installation sources.
+ System. Date, time, accessibility, and device information.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE SETTINGS 54
Most apps also include their own settings, typically available
from the = menu on the upper left side of the app, or from the

: Menu > Settings. On Google Play edition devices, settings
may be in the Menu button.

Some useful settings are also available from the Google Settings
app.

The Google Settings app let you adjust adjust
preferences for commonly used Google apps and
services in one place, including Google+, Location,
Search, and the Android Device Manager.

To open Google Settings, touch the & in @ All Apps.
From here, you can also:

+ Control how interest-based Google ads are displayed in
non-Google apps.

+ Under Connected apps, you can view all the apps that have
access to your Google Account information, including the type
of access granted to each app.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE SETTINGS 55
6
Accessibility

To use the accessibility options, open ¥¥ Settings > System >
ility.

 

To view detailed information about setting up these options, visit
Android Accessibility. Options for people with visual impairments
include the following:

Captions: You can turn on captions for your device and specify
the language, text size, and style. For some apps, you have to turn
onthe captions inthe app itself.

TalkBack is a screen reader from Google that comes with your
Android phone. It uses spoken feedback to describe events, such
as notifications, and the results of your actions, such as opening
an app. When TalkBack is on, you have to double-tap in order to
select something. TalkBack settings let you control the nature of
TalkBack speech, feedback, and touch exploration (Explore by
touch).

Explore by touch is a system feature that works with TalkBack,
allowing you to touch your device's screen and hear what's under
your finger via spoken feedback. It is helpful to people with low or
no vision. In TalkBack settings, you can change the settings of Ex-
plore by touch, like managing gestures and how lists are scrolled.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ACCESSIBILITY 56
 

Display and sound accessibility options include increasing the
text size, changing the speed at which text is spoken, color inver-
sion, color correction, and high contrast text.

If you have low vision and don’t plan to use Explore by Touch, visit
support.google.com/android to see Help content formatted for
sighted users. You can make reading and navigating this material
easier by increasing the text size — just open Chrome, go to Menu
> Settings > Accessibility, and drag the slider to adjust the text
size.

You can also try magnification gestures, which allow you to zoom
in and out, as well as temporarily magnify what's under your fin-
ger. To try magnification gestures, go to ¥¥ Settings > Accessi-
bility > Magnification gestures.

 

ANDROID QUICK START GUIDE ACCESSIBILITY 57
